 

et: EE

TISSUES

BRAIN, NOS - BRAIN TUMOR, B. BRAIN, NOS - BRAIN TUMOR

 

1 GROSS DESCRIPTION

A. The specimen is received fresh for frozen section in a container labeled
with the patient's name, medical record | lllrurver and designated
"tumor". The specimen consists of three irregular fragments of red-tan soft
tissue ranging from 0.3 x 0.2 x 0.1 cm up to 1.2 x 1 x 0.5 cm. The squash
preps are performed, a representative section is submitted for frozen
section. The frozen section and the remaining tissue are entirely submitted
for permanent sectioning in cassettes FSA, A. Blood is received per CBTTC
protocol .

B. The specimen is received a container labeled with the patient's
name, medical record eres and designated "tumor". The specimen
consists of three irregular fragments of tan-red soft tissue ranging from 1 x
0.7 x 0.4 cm up to 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.3 cm. A representative portion of the
specimen is submitted in accordance to protocol CBTTC. A representative
portion is submitted for cytogenetic studies. The remaining tissue is
entirely submitted in one cassette.

 

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS

MEDULLOBLASTOMA

REPORTED BY:
REPORTED TO:

ey MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION

 

Sheets of tightly packed tumor cells are present, and also infiltrate
cerebellum and leptomeninges. The cells form occasional Homer Wright
rosettes. Tumor cells have oblong or carrot-shaped hyperchromatic nuclei and
inconspicuous cytoplasm: nucleoli are not prominent, and cell wrapping is not
present. There are many mitotic figures and apoptotic cells and also
occasional foci of necrosis.

GFAP indicates entrapped astrocytes within the tumor. However tumor cells
show strong expression of synaptophysin and considerable expression of
neurofilament. INI-1 is retained by tumor nuclei.

 

DISCLAIMER

"These tests were developed and their performance characteristics determined
by the Pathology Department at NENEGGGEENGGGGGGGENE Thc)
have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not necessary.
These tests are used for clinical purposes. It should not be regarded as

 

 

 

