7316-535

Surgical Pathology Final Report

Case: !
Collected:
Se Von
Clinical Information AA 0
Procedure! Craniotomy, resection of brain lesion n op at
Preop Diagnosis: Brain Tumor D oN wl
Clinical History: Seizures NS A 9
™ \KX’ pn

Lye Pay

Gross Description WN

A) Received in formalin for FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS and designated TUMOR are multiple
fragments of soft white lobulated tissue aggregating to 1.5 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm. Specimen is wrapped and
entirely submitted in cassette A1

FROZEN SECTION DIAGNOSIS: CELLULAR NEOPLASM, FAVOR GLIAL (GRD 3), VS. EDGE OF
PNET (LF/JR)

B) Received in formalin for routine examination labeled LATERAL TEMPORAL LOBE are several
fragments of white, soft tissue aggregating to 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is wrapped and
entirely submitted in cassette B1

C) Received in formalin for routine examination labeled TUMOR are several fragments of tan-white,
soft tissue aggregating to 1.0 x 0.7 x 0.5 cm. The specimen is entirely submitted in cassette C1.

D) Received in formalin for routine examination designated INFERIOR BORDER is a strip consisting
of several fragments of white, soft tissue measuring 2.0 cm in length and 0.5 x 0.7 cm. The specimen
is wrapped and entirely submitted in cassette D1

E) Received in formalin for routine examination designated HIPPOCAMPUS is a 2.0 x 1.5 x 1.0 cm
fragment of tan-white, soft tissue. Portions have a more opaque white appearance suspicious for
tumor. Other regions have a slightly translucent appearance, suggestive of normal brain. The
specimen is serially sectioned perpendicular to the long axis and submitted in toto in cassette E1.

F) Received in formalin for routine examination designated CUSA CONTENTS are several minute
fragments of brain parenchyma approximating 30 cc. Approximately 75% of the specimen is wrapped
and submitted in cassettes F1-F4

[BB]

Tissue handling: Frozen section tissue: Snap frozen in cryovial: 1A

Microscopic Description

A & C) H&E stained touch preparations show a hypercellular lesion comprised of somewhat
monorrorphic cells that lack obvious processes. Tissue sections of the neoplasm show a

hyp reoplasm with mild pleomorphism. Some regions have a fine vascular background with
has a 'chicken-wire' architecture. The tumor cells are small to intermediate in size with poorly defined
cytoplasmic membranes, hyperchromatic round to irregular nuclei that have a relatively diffuse growth
pattern. Numerous mature ganglion cells, are interpreted as overrun endogenous neurons, and are
highlighted with NeuN and HuC/D immunostains. Scattered, focally prominent, admixed reactive
astrocytes have abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm and remarkable stellate processes, highlighted by
GFAP. Rare hypocellular areas (A1) have central karryorhectic debris but unequivocal geographic
necrosis or vascular proliferation is not identified. Mitotic figures are variable but focally prominent and
range from 6 - 16 / 10 HPFs and average 11/ 10 HPFs. MIB-1 (Ki-67) is positive in 15-50% of the
neoplastic cells, averecing ~25%. There is diffuse staining for synaptophysin and GFAP is negative to
only focally positive in the small cell component. Neurofilament highlights only few areas.

 

  
  

 
 
  
 

s test panel was developed and its performance characteristics determined by
ome of the reagents used in this panel have not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food
2tion. "DA does not require this test to go through premarket FDA review. This test is used for clinical
tehoutd not be regarded as investigational or for research. This laboratory is regulated under the Clinical

Lanoratory improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA) as qualified to perform high complexity testing.

   

