 

Gross Description
The case is received fresh in five parts each labeled with the patient's name and medical record number.

Part A is labeled “cellabella (sic) tumor superior, frozen” and consists of a single soft, irregular fragment of pink tan tissue
(1x1x0.4cm). A cytologic preparation is made and a representative section is submitted for frozen section A; and the
frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette A1. The remaining tissue is entirely submitted in cassette A2. (dc)

Part B is labeled “tumor cyst wall superior, frozen” and consists of a single soft, irregular fragment of pink tan tissue (0.8 x
0.6x 0.3 cm). A cytologic preparation is made and a representative section is submitted for frozen section B; and the
frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette B1. The remaining tissue is entirely submitted in cassette B2. (dc)

Part C is labeled “tumor cyst wall anterior boundary, frozen” and consists of a single soft, irregular fragment of pink tan
tissue (0.7 x 0.2 x 0.2 cm). A cytologic preparation is made and a representative section is submitted for frozen section
C; and the frozen section remnant is submitted in cassette C1. The remaining tissue is entirely submitted in cassette C2.
(de)

Part D is labeled “Cellabella tumor 2” and consists of a single soft, fleshy nodule of pink tan tissue (2x 1.5x 1 cm). The
cute surface is pink-translucent and homogenous with focal areas of white fibrous tissue on the surface of the nodule. The
specimen is serially sectioned and entirely submitted in cassettes D1-D2. (er)

Part E is labeled “tumor cyst wall perm” and consists of a single firm piece of tan-white tissue (0.5 x 0.3 x 0.3 cm). The
specimen is entirely submitted in cassettes E1. (er)

Clinical History
According to APeX, the patient is a 10-year-old girl with a several week history of intermittent vomiting and headaches.

MRI revealed a large cystic mass with associated hydrocephalus. The mass is located within the right cerebeltar
hemisphere and vermis (5.1 x 3.2 cm) with an associated enhancing nodule (1.6 x 1.4 cm) and the differential included
pilocytic astrocytoma, pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma, and ganglioglioma. The patient now undergoes craniotomy with
tumor resection.

Diagnosis based on gross and microscopic examinations. ~ Final diagnosis made by attending pathologist following review of ali pathology slides. The
attending pathologist has reviewed all dictations, including prosector work, and preliminary interpretations performed by any resident involved in the case
and performed all necessary edits before signing the final report.

ait

 

 

Director:

